# What is speech?

To defend free speech, we must be clear about what speech is.  It is not only the right to express an idea, it is the right to listen to an idea, and decide it's merits for oneself.

Freedom is individual sovereignty of body and individual sovereignty of mind.  While it is justifiable to restrict someone from using their body in a way that violates the sovereignty of another individual, there can be no such justification when it comes to someone's thoughts or their expression of them.  Offense can not be given, it can only be taken.

While intentions can matter when it comes to how to punish an action, intention is no justification to punish speech.  The speaker could be lying or trying to achieve a nefarious end, but they could also simply be wrong, or even right in a non-obvious way.  Once someone is censored, all who would have listened are denied the freedom to infer the intent of the speaker, and are also denied access to the speakers ideas.  The speaker is also denied the opportunity to become more informed by dissenting opinions, so they could either strengthen how they express their idea, or to change their mind if they are convinced of their error.  It is particularly insidious to de-platform someone for what they are about to say, as by the very act of de-platforming them, you removed your justification for de-platforming them.

Even when criminal action is taken, the thought behind the action only matters to the extent that it determines if the action was on purpose.  It would be wise to push back on terms like “hate crime”, it is more honest to refer to this as “thought crime” instead, as this clarifies that the additional punishment has been added because of thought, not action.  To treat a “hate crime” differently than a “crime” crosses the line from protective use of force, to tyrannical criminalization of thought.

Speech must never be equated to violence.  As soon as that happens, it is too easy to justify the use of violence to suppress speech.  But what about cases where violence actually happens?  In many of these cases, it is unrealistic to have predicted what the reaction would be.  But sometimes it is predictable.  The predictable cases have a credible, direct, and immediate call to action.  In these situations the ones committing the act of violence are still primarily at fault.  However, the orchestrator could be justly punished for manipulating the circumstances to ensure the violence occurred, but this punishment would be for the organization of violence, not the speech itself.  A free speech absolutist is talking about the freedom to express an idea, not direct, credible, and immediate calls to action.

In the book “On Liberty”, John Stuart Mill uses an example of someone expressing the opinion that corn dealers are starvers of the poor.  This opinion can not be justly suppressed from being circulated through the press, but should this opinion be delivered orally to an excited mob assembled before the house of a corn dealer, that particular manner of expressing the opinion could be justly suppressed, as it creates a direct, credible, and immediate threat to the corn dealer in question.  Again, it is the violence, not the opinion, that is being suppressed.

I will conclude with the irony that anyone who argues for censorship is inherently a hypocrite, because their ability to make that argument in the first place is predicated them having free speech.  It is a testament to the strength of the argument for free speech, that this argument thrives even while allowing others to express their objections.  In the case without free speech, which of two competing ideas wins is determined by whoever has the power at the time, not the merit of the ideas.
